to survive here you have to be prepared
to die here
but the Sun can return as quickly as the
storm arrived and a rise of just a few
degrees is enough to spark a Thor even
underground
[Music]
frozen solid a mountain stone wetter it
has the most extraordinary survival
technique of all
the ability to come back from the dead
[Music]
only in the specialized filming chamber
can we capture its extraordinary talent
the weather has developed special
proteins which prevent ice crystals from
forming inside itself a remarkable trick
for a creature whose ancestors once
lived in prehistoric warm wet forests
when New Zealand's mountains grew up
beneath them around five million years
ago they were forced to come up with
this incredible ability to survive near
lethal temperatures defrosting uses up a
lot of energy so mountain snow berries
are welcome sight
[Music]
the weather needs to stock up while it
can the next Antarctic storm could be
the return of winter
it can tolerate over 80% of its body
freezing solid and can do so day in and
day out for weeks at a time
[Music]
now where else in New Zealand does life
go to such extremes to survive
you